# How to Install the Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL) for Python Development

Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL) is a compatibility layer for running Linux
binary executables (in ELF format) natively on Windows 10. WSL provides a
Linux-compatible kernel interface developed by Microsoft which can then run a
Linux userland on top of it, such as that of Ubuntu, SUSE or Fedora
([Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Windows_Subsystem_for_Linux)).

## 1. Installation

The instructions for a basic installation can be found
[here](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/install-win10).  After
finishing the installation process described in the Guide, a working Linux
Shell can be invoked by either:
- Running `bash` from a command-prompt
- From the start menu shortcut

After the installation make sure the system is up do date.

For Ubuntu
```
$ sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get upgrade
```

For openSUSE
```
$ sudo zypper refresh && sudo zypper update
```

## 2. Setting Up WSL for Development (Ubuntu)

In order to have a minimum programing environment, some
basic compilers are needed.  The recommended package on Ubuntu
([build-essential](https://packages.ubuntu.com/xenial/build-essential))
can be installed using apt-get by,

```
$ sudo apt-get install build-essential
```

Other packages can also be installed depending on each case, e.g.,
```
$ sudo apt-get install gfortran git
```

If folders such as Documents, Downloads, etc. are not in the home directory,
they can be created through,
```
$ mkdir <folder_name>
```

where `<folder_name>` is the name you give to the directory.

## 3. Installing Python (Anaconda)

Both versions of Anaconda (Python) can be downloaded and installed
directly from the terminal using wget.

Python 2
```
$ wget https://repo.continuum.io/archive/Anaconda2-5.0.1-Linux-x86_64.sh
```

Python 3
```
$ wget https://repo.continuum.io/archive/Anaconda3-5.0.1-Linux-x86_64.sh
```

After the download is finished (I recomend downloading installers to the
Downloads folder) the instalation setup can be invoked by (e.g.,
Anaconda3-5.0.1),
```
$ bash Anaconda3-5.0.1-Linux-x86_64.sh
```

The installer will ask a sequence of questions.  To select the default answers
press ENTER for each question. After the process is done Anaconda should now be
installed.  You should quit (Ctrl+D) and relaunch the shell for the changes to
take effect or run,
```
$ . ~/.bashrc
```

To confirm that Python is working you can check which version of Python the Bash
is running with,
```
$ which python
```

Now that Anaconda is installed, you can use Python, IPython, and other related
tools. A Jupyter Notebook can be staterd from the terminal by using,
```
$ jupyter notebook --no-browser
```

This will start a server at `http://localhost:8888` that can be used from your
browser of choice on Windows.  Make sure you copy/paste the whole URL shown in
the terminal into the browser on Windows, because it includes a token.

### 3.1. Running a Jupyter Notebook Without Copying/Pasting the URL into the Browser

The copy/past process can be inconvenient and there is an simple workaround.
Since the `bash` can run executable programs installed on Windows, the start
command from the Command Prompt can be used to invoke a new browser.  For
instance, if the browser of choice is Google Chrome, we can open a new window
from the bash as,
```
$ cmd.exe /c start chrome
```

A bash script can be used to automate the process. For the example above, a bash
script named chrome can be created directly from the terminal using,
```
$ echo -e '#!/bin/bash\ncmd.exe /c start chrome $@'>chrome && chmod 774 chrome
```

You can check if the script works by running,
```
$ ./chrome
```

The script can be moved to one of the directories in the path so it can be run
from different locations (directories). We can verify which directories are in
the path by,
```
$ echo $PATH
```

The script can be moved to any of those directories. For example, to move the
script `chrome` to `/home/<username>/.local/bin`,
```
$ mv chrome /home/<username>/.local/bin/.
```

in which `<username>` is your username. Now a jupyter notebook can be invoked as
it would if it were not installed on the Linux environment by running,
```
$ jupyter notebook
```

## 3. Configuring Bash Colors

## 4. Running Programs That Need an X-Server
### 4.1. Startinging the X-Server Automatically
### 4.2. Opening Programs from Windows Shortcuts
### 4.3. Examples
